docs: add stashed items (#2119)
neondatabase/website: content/changelog/2024-09-06.md

---

> description: A new Business plan with more, new monitoring charts for Read Replicas, and a protected branches update

Reviewer: The "with more" here feels truncated. This is a suggestion: "more of everything" is another suggestion that includes features

> description: A new Business plan with more, new monitoring charts for Read Replicas, and a protected branches update

Author: fixed

To learn more about our new plan, please refer to our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page and [Plans](/docs/introduction/plans) documentation.

### New monitoring graphs for Read Replicas

We added two new charts to the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console for monitoring Read Replica replication lag. These charts are visible when selecting a **Replica** compute from the **Compute** drop-down menu.

- **Replication delay bytes**: Measures the total size, in bytes, of the data that has been sent from the primary compute but has not yet been applied on the replica.
- **Replication delay seconds**: Indicates the time delay, in seconds, between the last transaction committed on the primary compute and the application of that transaction on the replica.

For more information, see [Monitoring dashboard](/docs/introduction/monitoring-page).

### A protected branches update

> When you perform a [branch reset or restore](/docs/introduction/point-in-time-restore) operation on a child branch, the role passwords on the child branch are now preserved. Previously, resetting or restoring a child branch (where passwords were previously regenerated) resets the passwords back to those used on the parent branch. The protected branches feature is available with the Neon [Scale](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) plan. To learn more, refer to our [Protected Branches guide](/docs/guides/protected-branches).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you perform a [branch reset or restore](/docs/introduction/point-in-time-restore) operation on a child branch, the role passwords on the child branch are now preserved. Previously, resetting or restoring a child branch (where passwords were previously regenerated) reset the passwords back to those used on the parent branch. The protected branches feature is available with the Neon [Scale](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) plan as well as our new [Business](/docs/introduction/plans#business) plan. To learn more, refer to our [Protected Branches guide](/docs/guides/protected-branches).
```

### New monitoring graphs for Read Replicas

We added two new charts to the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console for monitoring Read Replica replication lag. These charts are visible when selecting a **Replica** compute from the **Compute** drop-down menu.

- **Replication delay bytes**: Measures the total size, in bytes, of the data that has been sent from the primary compute but has not yet been applied on the replica.

  ![Replication delay bytes](/docs/introduction/rep_delay_bytes.png)

- **Replication delay seconds**: Indicates the time delay, in seconds, between the last transaction committed on the primary compute and the application of that transaction on the replica.

  ![Replication delay seconds](/docs/introduction/rep_delay_seconds.png)

For more information, see [Monitoring dashboard](/docs/introduction/monitoring-page).

### A Protected Branches update

New passwords are automatically generated for Postgres roles on branches created from protected branches. You can learn more about this feature [here](/docs/guides/protected-branches#new-passwords-generated-for-postgres-roles-on-child-branches).

> Previously, [resetting or restoring](/docs/introduction/point-in-time-restore) a child branch (where passwords were previously regenerated) resets the passwords back to those used on the parent branch. Now, when you perform a branch reset or restore operation from a protected branch, **the role passwords on the child branch are preserved**.

Author: ```suggestion
Previously, [resetting or restoring](/docs/introduction/point-in-time-restore) a child branch (where passwords were previously regenerated) reset the passwords back to those used on the parent branch. Now, when you perform a branch reset or restore operation from a protected branch, **the role passwords on the child branch are preserved**.
```
